[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: You're going
to love this Beyond Belief
episode with Simeon Hein.
He has a PhD in sociology
with an emphasis in statistics
and research methods.
He's been teaching
remote viewing since 1997
and is the author of
Dark Matter Monsters.
Welcome back, Simeon.
>>SIMEON HEIN: Hi, George.
Thanks for having me here.
>>NOORY: Great book, by the way.
>>HEIN: Oh, thanks very much.
>>NOORY: How have you been?
What's new?
>>HEIN: Well, George, after
doing Dark Matter Monsters,
I've been attending a
lot of Bigfoot events,
conferences, even
some Bigfoot outings
to learn more about this
fascinating and really,
for me, unexpected subject.
>>NOORY: What got you
interested in this?
>>HEIN: George, it was really
my remote viewing students
right here in nearby Boulder.
I've been teaching there
since the late '90s.
And my RV students, the
natives to Colorado especially,
would tell me about
their encounters
with Biggie, the
big guy out there.
>>NOORY: Do you believe them?
>>HEIN: It took
a couple decades.
I'm kind of thick.
>>NOORY: It takes time.
>>HEIN: It takes a while.
I heard these stories.
And I couldn't quite think
how that would fit in
with these other topics until I
began to see patterns, patterns
in the witnesses.
When I would go to
these conferences,
I would talk to witnesses.
Some of these people had
never spoken to anyone
before about their
sightings, their encounters.
So it really drew me in because
I started seeing parallels
with other types of
paranormal phenomena
that was really unexpected.
>>NOORY: Tell me about the book.
>>HEIN: I really decided I had
to write this book because it
seemed to me, looking across
the various types of topics
that I'd been studying, there
were some common phenomena
that I felt really needed to be
discussed-- the orbs that people
encounter in different types
of paranormal situations.
I was really
surprised to find that
in people's Bigfoot sightings.
Or sometimes they would
only see the orbs.
They'd see the creatures
come out of the orbs
or go back into orbs,
cases of time loss,
and, especially, George,
battery and camera failure.
How many times you've
interviewed so many people?
>>NOORY: Oh, my god.
>>HEIN: You see this
in ghost sightings.
We saw it in crop circles
with our own equipment.
To hear it from these
witnesses, some of whom
live right here in Colorado,
to hear about their cameras,
their iPhones going
on the fritz--
>>NOORY: Zap.
>>HEIN: Exactly.
I knew there had to be an
electromagnetic component
to Bigfoot and some of
these cryptids because
of the amounts of camera
failure, battery failure, blurry
photos.
You know the deal.
>>NOORY: Explain
what cold fusion is.
Because there's a reason
for this question.
>>HEIN: Yeah, well,
cold fusion is
the name given to this
low-energy nuclear process.
It's now called LENR,
Low-Energy Nuclear Reaction.
It was discovered by
Fleischmann and Pons
at the University
of Utah in 1989.
And at the time, there was no
explanation for how it worked,
what was going on.
They received, as you know, a
lot of criticism and hostility
and had to leave the country.
But now we know from
much more experimentation
from many countries that
it's a real phenomena.
It's not always so
easy to sustain,
though some people,
Alexander Pakhomov,
have gotten that reaction
going for up to four months.
It seems to be driven
by microball lightning.
And that comes from the research
of Japanese researcher Takaaki
Matsumoto.
Again, we see microball
lightning orbs
in a lot of these
different phenomena
that we've been talking
about over the years.
>>NOORY: How does that flow into
Bigfoot and other phenomena?
>>HEIN: Well, you get this orb
phenomena around Sasquatch.
You get it around
other cryptids.
And the researchers looking
at these LENR reactions,
these so-called cold
fusion reactions,
would see this microball
lightning under a microscope.
I think it's actually the same
phenomena at a different scale.
And in cold fusion, it
generates excess heat.
The trick, obviously, is to
get it to be a closed loop
to sustain itself.
But I think that Bigfoot and
some of these other creatures
are generating the
intense amounts of energy
that they have available to
them from microball lightning--
the overall name for it,
George, is coherent manner.
It seems that they're
tapping into that somehow
at a quantum level.
And it's the same
reason cold fusion
generates the excess heat.
So I think there's
a connection there.
>>NOORY: There's an ape that
is primarily down in Florida
called the Gigantopithecus.
What do we know
about this creature?
>>HEIN: Oh, the skunk ape,
yeah, in Southern Florida.
So, George, the amazing thing
about the Bigfoot species
is there are so many
different types of them,
all the way from
Southern Florida
to Alaska, into Russia and--
>>NOORY: To the Himalayas.
>>HEIN: Himalayas,
Europe, other parts--
Southeast Asia.
They all have the--
China.
They all have their own
names for this creature.
But the amazing thing is to go
from the skunk ape in Florida
to the types of Bigfoot
that you have in Alaska,
there is so much variation,
it's almost hard to comprehend.
It is much variation
in Bigfoot as there
are in humans in different
parts of the Earth.
The Gigantopithecus is an idea
that some anthropologists had
back in the '80s.
I was very physically
close to one of these.
It was Grover Krantz in
the anthropology department
at WSU, where I went
to school and got
my PhD in Pullman, Washington.
He believed that Bigfoot
was a Gigantopithecus.
This is--
>>NOORY: A skunk ape.
>>HEIN: It's a type of ape that
there's no evidence it actually
made its way to North America.
But it was discovered in
China millions of years ago.
And there were these
ideas that maybe
came across the Bering Straits.
>>NOORY: What did it look like?
>>HEIN: That was a huge ape
that walked on all fours.
There's no evidence that
it walked on two legs.
And of course, as you know,
George, a lot of the witnesses
describe Bigfoot only--
I mean, it does go
down on all fours,
but they describe it
walking on two legs.
And that's how you
know you're probably
not dealing with an ape.
It's my belief that this is much
more closely related to a human
than to an ape.
>>NOORY: Is he the missing link?
>>HEIN: I don't know if
Bigfoot is the missing link.
It seems that Bigfoot
is one of our relatives
in the distant past,
almost as if we
were the same species
perhaps millions of years ago
and diverged in
different directions.
And we went in a technological
direction, Homo sapiens.
But Bigfoot seems to have
gone into a direction
of being close to nature.
And this would
explain why they have
these abilities,
natural telepathy.
I mean, many of us have to take
classes to learn telepathy,
remote viewing.
Bigfoot seems to know
how to do this naturally.
Incredible strength, speeds.
And one of the most
fascinating aspects of Bigfoot
is their ability to
become invisible.
And I was really amazed talking
to so many different witnesses
to hear the same accounts
of the invisibility.
These people couldn't believe
what they were seeing.
They literally see this ape,
human-like creature, huge.
And like a sheet of light
comes down like sparkly--
>>NOORY: Weird.
>>HEIN: --lights.
And they're gone.
>>NOORY: Jim Myers heads up
a museum called the Sasquatch
Outpost.
It's in Bailey, Colorado.
What do we know about this?
>>HEIN: Well, it's interesting
you mention that, George,
because this was one of the
synchronicities that led
me to go off in this direction.
A friend of mine in
Boulder had told me
about this Sasquatch
Outpost in Bailey.
And I just happened to be going
through there with a friend one
day, Bailey.
And I said to her, why don't we
just go this direction in town,
take a left instead of
going back in the highway?
>>NOORY: There's probably
only one museum there.
>>HEIN: There's only
one museum there.
So we're going along.
And all of a sudden,
she said, look,
it's a huge Bigfoot on the side
of the wall of that building.
And we looked and said, that
must be the museum that people
had been telling me about.
And I hadn't visited.
So we went in.
And I was amazed to see that
just a few miles from us,
George, in the Rockies,
people were having encounters.
They had a map there.
And all these little dots where
the sightings had taken place.
And it's almost like the
scales fell from my eyes.
All of a sudden,
I realized Bigfoot
wasn't some creature
that was just
in some remote
part of Washington
State in the Cascades.
It was all over the
Rockies and, as I
learned, all over the United
States, Canada, and so forth.
But there was that map
with the footprints,
the sightings, the howling
sounds that had been heard,
and the tree structures.
And it was all up and down
the front range, which
is just a few miles from us.
>>NOORY: Simeon, on a
previous Beyond Belief show,
I had Jim Myers on.
And he took us around to
the Sasquatch outpost.
Let's take a look at what
you are referring to.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>JIM MYERS: So
we're about to enter
the inner sanctum of the
Sasquatch Outpost, which
is the Sasquatch Encounter
Discovery Museum.
So if you come with
me, we'll head on in.
This is something that we
found back in about 2013.
I found a set of elk tracks
where the elk was actually
running.
And it was defecating as it ran,
which I thought was unusual.
I followed the
tracks until I came
upon this imprint of an
elk's body in the snow,
like an elk stamp.
It's like it was running and it
hit the snow and stopped dead.
And I could see the legs.
I could see the neck, the head.
This elk did not move
once it hit the snow.
Then we noticed
another set of tracks
coming from a different
direction that
were 10 to 12 feet
apart with every stride.
And the two sets of tracks
converged right here,
where this elk was in the snow.
And then the big
tracks just carried on.
And our assumption is this
elk was somehow knocked down
by a Sasquatch, which then
picked it up and carried it off,
which is probably 400 or
500 pounds dead weight.
Given that there were no elk
tracks leaving this location,
the only explanation
we could come up with
is that it was picked
up and carried off.
The easiest way to know if
Sasquatch is active in an area
is looking for what
they do with trees.
And tree breaks is the most
common one that we find,
where trees are broken
and left hanging always
the same way; or
tree arches, which
are trees that are bent over
and then stuck in the ground
or stuck under another tree
to keep this arch shape.
And sometimes I've seen these
up to 15 feet high, coming down
and then stuck in the
ground, maybe a foot
to keep that tree bent.
These are classic signs.
And I find them everywhere
I go in Colorado.
This is the map that we've had
since we started the museum.
And every pin on
here is a story.
And every story was told
to myself or my wife.
The red ones are actual visual
sightings of a Sasquatch.
The yellow ones have to do with
some kind of a tree structure
like we spoke about.
Black are footprints.
Green is some kind
of a vocalization,
and blue is an object that was
thrown at someone while they
were out hiking.
So this is the whole state.
This is Bailey right here.
But there were so many
sightings in Bailey,
I had to blow it up and create a
second map just of the activity
around here.
So you can see, I think there's
over 300 pins on the map.
And again, this
is just people who
have talked to me
about their sightings.
So imagine how many
other people have
seen a Sasquatch in Colorado.
>>NOORY: You got to become
a believer after listening
to Jim Myers talking about it.
>>HEIN: It's
absolutely fascinating.
Isn't it amazing
to see that map?
He's done such a great job.
And you go in that museum.
And you see the different
types of faces and heads
that the Sasquatch have.
And then he has that scale
model that you saw here.
You realize how tall they are.
They would go up to the ceiling.
You realize why people
have a sense of PTSD
after they've seen--
>>NOORY: I mean, something,
Simeon, is going on.
>>HEIN: Oh, no.
>>NOORY: There's no
doubt about that.
>>HEIN: No doubt about it.
No, it's definitely going on.
And it was something that I
wasn't even aware of, even
living in this area.
Because I'll tell you
what's going on, George.
The witnesses are often
afraid, just like they
are in other subjects.
>>NOORY: They'll be ridiculed.
>>HEIN: Exactly.
People don't like being
attacked, ridiculed,
laughed at, especially by
colleagues where they work.
So they just don't
talk about it.
They talk about it
to people like me
because they know
I'm nonjudgmental.
I'm already interested
in these crazy topics,
but they won't talk about
it to people they know.
So these stories are
really suppressed.
And that's what Jim's
referring to there.
He said there's probably
a lot more dots that
could be on that map, but people
haven't told their stories.
>>NOORY: Do you hear many
stories of missing time
associated with Bigfoot?
What do you hear?
>>HEIN: Yeah.
No.
I had a friend.
And Jim mentioned objects being
thrown at people in the woods.
This person was hiking in the
Rocky Mountains with a friend,
and a huge rock came out of
the bushes going horizontally
right between them.
>>NOORY: See, I don't think
they're trying to hit him.
>>HEIN: No, they were
just saying, we're here.
>>NOORY: Getting his attention.
>>HEIN: Here's a rock coming,
a big, bowling ball-sized rock
coming right through.
That same person-- it's
interesting you mentioned that.
She described going for
a hike with a friend up
in the same area.
And she didn't see a Sasquatch.
But all of a sudden,
they find themselves
back in the parking lot,
missing about an hour of time.
And it's getting dark.
And they can't explain it.
And people who have
encountered Sasquatch sometimes
talk about all of
a sudden, they look
at their watch and four
or five hours have gone by
and it's like they don't
know where the time--
>>NOORY: They don't
>>HEIN: They've been standing
in the same position.
It's not even like they're sore.
It's just like time moved.
It's very strange.
>>NOORY: What is the
Sasquatch Genome Project?
>>HEIN: The Sasquatch Genome
Project was an attempt,
as many people have often done,
to get some DNA evidence to find
out, biologically, where
this creature falls
in the family tree of life.
And Dr. Melba Ketchum in Texas--
>>NOORY: She was one
and is one of the best.
>>HEIN: Yeah, a veterinarian,
doctor of veterinary sciences.
Analyzed some hair,
allegedly from a Sasquatch
that they were able to
temporarily sedate and get
some hair from.
And we've seen the photos
of that Sasquatch there.
And apparently, the evidence--
and many other people
have attempted to get
some DNA evidence.
It always comes
out the same way.
It's like mostly human, I think.
In Dr. Ketchum's analysis, 92%
human and 8% something else.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>HEIN: They're related to us.
And there's also something
else going on there.
It's--
>>NOORY: Something
else is important.
>>HEIN: Yeah, something
What is that something else?
It can't be identified,
the rest of the DNA.
I mean, from what I
hear, what I've read,
it doesn't fit into any DNA
that we have in these huge DNA
databases.
So we're not sure what it is.
It's something mammalian, but it
doesn't fit any known species.
So it's a real mystery.
And unfortunately, science
has become very timid,
George, as you know.
Rather than embrace
these mysteries
and look into these
things, they tend
to push this away and not
only ridicule witnesses,
but they ridicule scientists who
want to look at these topics.
It's unfortunate.
>>NOORY: Simeon, the
group that investigates
Sasquatch sightings, of
course, we've got on video.
They're truly remarkable.
>> Breaking news out of Texas.
Bigfoot is real, according
to a group of researchers.
They call themselves the
Sasquatch Genome Project.
And they released
what they say is
proof, several
never-before-seen short video
clips of the legendary
and very shy creature.
The group spent five years
and $500,000 coming to this
conclusion.
One clip is of
Sasquatch sleeping
shot during the day in
Kentucky back in 2005.
>> We've all had experiences
that have changed our lives.
I mean, literally
shook the foundations
of what we believe in.
>> Besides the video, they
say they also have DNA proof
of Bigfoot's existence.
One of the researchers stressed
that their work has been, quote,
"serious study."
>>NOORY: Pretty dramatic.
>>HEIN: Right.
George, I've had a subscription
to Science magazine,
the preeminent Science magazine
in the US from the AAAS.
I have read almost
every issue since 1990,
and I've never seen them
address this type of subject.
>>NOORY: They should.
It's a huge story.
>>HEIN: We've got evidence.
We've got scientists.
We've got hair samples.
Sometimes there are these
little blood samples
from little objects that pierce
a little bit of the skin.
They have some blood.
I've never seen it looked at
in Science magazine or Nature
magazine, and it's almost like
there's a type of suppression
of these anomalies.
And in the history of science,
suppressing anomalies eventually
leads to a huge paradigm change.
If they're not
going to look at it,
eventually, the evidence
is going to be there.
And we're going to have to
change our point of view
of our own evolution,
who we are and how
we relate to the rest
of the animal kingdom.
>>NOORY: Tell us more
about Melba Ketchum
and exactly what was able to
obtain this DNA hair sample.
How did they do that?
>>HEIN: Well, she has
her own DNA analysis lab,
and she was able
to do the analysis.
>>NOORY: How did
they get the sample?
>>HEIN: Allegedly, this group
that we saw in the video clip
took that hair sample from
that particular creature,
which they gave a name to.
They called her Matilda.
I think you have
to agree, that's
a pretty impressive video clip.
It almost rivals--
>>NOORY: It's like
the Patterson-Gimlin.
>>HEIN: Almost like
Patterson-Gimlin,
Paul Freeman footage
from the Blue Mountains.
Something very close up.
And the first time I saw
that footage, I mean,
it's really quite
shocking to realize you
could be looking at
this other species
that we know very little about.
So they got the hair
sample from that creature
that they called Matilda.
And Dr. Ketchum analyzed it.
And when we're
doing science, we're
looking at these consistent
patterns across different types
of data sets.
And what Dr. Ketchum found
is very similar to what
other people have found doing
the same types of analysis,
that there's a lot--
that this is not
really a relic primate
as much as it's much
closer to a hominin.
It's much closer to us.
Even though it has a
lot of hair and fur,
it's closely related to us.
And people who have interacted
with Bigfoot, George,
say that they're
highly intelligent.
They have their
own language, as we
know from the Sierra Sounds, Ron
Morehead and the Sierra Nevadas.
Those--
>>NOORY: They seem
to be nonviolent.
>>HEIN: They often
seem to be nonviolent.
But I have to say,
I have interviewed
witnesses that felt that
they were endangered
and had to flee the area.
And these are usually--
>>NOORY: Maybe
they provoked them.
>>HEIN: This often happens when
you have people going way back
in the back country,
where these Bigfoot maybe
haven't encountered people
before or at least not
in a long while.
You could be in an area where
there are other family members.
They have families.
And we don't know why they
become aggressive sometimes.
But you do get some
aggressive Sasquatch.
But there are many cases
of them rescuing people out
in the forest, in
the national parks.
People have gotten lost, kids
who've fallen into streams.
Very cold water.
They remember being
picked up out of the water
by something big and hairy.
So they often
rescue people, too.
>>NOORY: What about footprints?
What have they found?
>>HEIN: That's fascinating.
I was just part of an
event a couple of weeks
ago on the Olympic
Peninsula in Washington.
And we did this hydrocal casting
of these were human footprints,
but it was just an
example how to do it.
So there are tons and
tons of these footprints
that you've probably seen,
I think, in the past.
Maybe they used--
>>NOORY: Huge casts.
>>HEIN: Very big casts.
The feet are 13, 14
inches long, very wide.
You can see the example
in the Sasquatch Outpost.
Jim Myers had some
of these casts
compared to what human feet look
like, if my memory is correct.
And they're just huge.
They call it Bigfoot.
So this is a really
big creature.
And the imprints,
George, are quite deep,
suggesting that they weigh
easily 1,000 pounds or more
sometimes.
So how does a creature
that weighs that much
and is that big, how
are they that fast?
And how do they disappear so
quickly if they're that big?
>>NOORY: Do the feet
look like human feet?
>>HEIN: Yes.
>>NOORY: But just bigger?
>>HEIN: They look like
human feet, bigger.
There are some differences in
the arch that people like Jeff
Meldrum have analyzed to--
there's some
characteristics that
are slightly different
than human feet,
but they look like hominin feet.
They definitely look very
similar to human feet,
but very big.
>>NOORY: What would
happen if they declared
Bigfoot an endangered species?
>>HEIN: Well, I
think you're really
hitting on why we haven't really
talked about this as much as we
should have as a society.
Because as soon as this
species is recognized
as really existing,
as people who
work in the national parks and
the national forest service
know, it would mean probably
invoking the Endangered Species
Act, having areas that are now
open to commerce and tourism
probably closing some
of those areas off.
It would have big
consequences, George.
There's no doubt about it.
I mean, it's more likely
not to be an animal
as another type of human,
at least in my view.
And that would invoke even
more types of protections.
And I think the bureaucracies
that you and I live
under in the United States
have really hesitated
to want to make those changes.
It'd be pretty big if we
went in that direction,
but I think that's the only way
it could really go, ultimately.
>>NOORY: The Patterson-Gimlin
film, which you mentioned,
shot in '67?
>>HEIN: Right.
Right.
>>NOORY: Northern California?
>>HEIN: Yeah, Bluff Creek.
>>NOORY: They were there to
do a movie on Bigfoot, right?
>>HEIN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>HEIN: Patterson
and Gimlin came down.
They were two Cowboys.
>>NOORY: Can you explain
what is on the film?
>>HEIN: Well, the
Patterson-Gimlin film
is the most well-known
film of an actual Bigfoot.
It's movie.
It's 300 frames shot.
>>NOORY: Female Bigfoot.
>>HEIN: Female Bigfoot.
Yeah, this Bigfoot
had breasts, which
is one very good argument
why it's not a suit.
Because that would take a lot
more effort to make a suit
like that in a female form.
But you can see muscles
moving in this creature.
She's tall.
And Patterson and Gimlin
came down from Yakima,
just because they were
interested in the subject.
And they knew that
there had been
sightings in that area in
Bluff Creek from logging crews
and so forth.
It went all the way
back to the '50s.
Jerry Crew, actually, the guy
that created the name Bigfoot,
was part of a logging operation
out there in that area.
So there had been Bigfoot
sightings there for a while,
and they went down
just out of curiosity.
They brought their camera along.
And here they are.
And they come across one
which we now call Patty.
I actually saw this
in '72 as a preview,
a little minidocumentary to a
movie in the movie theaters.
So that's when I
first saw that film.
But most people have seen this.
And it's a very
realistic looking--
>>NOORY: Oh, my god.
>>HEIN: Muscles are moving.
>>NOORY: Limbering.
>>HEIN: Yeah.
And no one's ever
been able to reproduce
that walk that Patty has.
Because Bigfoot, their feet
don't walk the way we walk.
They actually put their
feet in front of each other.
And it looks different
than a human track.
So yeah, that film
is fascinating.
But I've heard Bob Gimlin,
he's been at these conferences.
And he said he's really
sorry he ever took
the film because he said they
got so much ridicule in Yakima.
His wife worked in the bank.
Yeah, you know
about this is people
would say mean things to her.
They would come up to
the house and yell.
And he said there
was no benefit.
And he's never made
any money from it.
But that's what they saw.
They took the film.
I believe it's 100% real.
>>NOORY: On an episode
of Open Minds on Gaia,
we had Jack Cary
talk about the film.
Let's take a look.
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
One of the things
is the naysayers
always say, oh, it's
just someone in a gorilla suit.
And this is always
the first thing
that comes up is the
authentication of the videos.
And first, let's just talk about
that for a moment to the best
you can.
I would appreciate that.
>>JACK CARY: Sure.
Well, as in the famous
Patterson-Gimlin film,
where they were stating that
this had to be an individual,
all the skeptics, this is a guy
in a gorilla suit walking along,
had to have been faked.
What's interesting is they
never take into account the year
in which that film was produced
and taken, which was 1967.
Now, in Hollywood, at the
time, the best monkey suits
anywhere in the world
were being utilized
on the set of
Planet of the Apes.
>>MEREDITH: Planet of the Apes.
>>CARY: It cost them
$1 million a day
to dress those actors
in those uniforms,
and they don't hold a
candle to the creature
in the Patterson-Gimlin film.
And that's the kind of
technology it would take.
Now the arm itself is
beyond human length.
It's been measured.
And yet, in one of the
frames, the creature
squeezes it's fingers.
Now, animatronics were
a thing that they were
dreaming about in that year.
And yet, that's the
kind of technology
that would be required in order
to produce that kind of a hoax.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
Why haven't they found
physical evidence--
bones, skin, something?
>>HEIN: George, it's
a good question.
I think that when bones and
evidence have been found,
it's often been taken away.
We know in the past centuries,
when large giant bones were
allegedly found out West in
this part of the country,
the Smithsonian would always
come in and take them away,
but never really have any
record of them later on.
And from the accounts I've read,
when bones have been discovered
out in national parks
and places like that,
the supervisors
there seem to want
to have the evidence go away.
They don't want people to be
scared coming to these parks,
and they don't want
the people to be
talking about this within
their own operations there.
So I think some of the
evidence has been suppressed.
And then it's a very
good question, generally,
why don't we have more
physical evidence.
But we often don't
have physical evidence
of a lot of other animals.
I spend a lot of time walking
around in nature, in the woods.
And you generally don't
find a lot of bones.
I mean, there pretty
much are going
to be devoured by scavengers.
>>NOORY: Yeah, we don't
find deer carcasses.
>>HEIN: They don't
last very long.
From my own experience, they're
there may be a week or two.
I mean, I've seen this happen.
And all the traces
of it are gone.
There are so many
different animals
and birds and things that'll
come and decompose a carcass.
So nature is very
good at doing this.
So I think those are
two reasons why we don't
have any more direct evidence.
>>NOORY: Could Sasquatch
be the biblical version
of the Nephilim?
>>HEIN: It could be, George.
You look back--
>>NOORY: You always
thought about that?
>>HEIN: No, I think it's a--
it's something I've looked into
recently, even learning Hebrew
to go back to some
of those old texts
and read it in the
original Hebrew.
And there's not
just the Nephilim.
There's the Rephaim
and other types
of giants that are mentioned
in the Old Testament.
>>NOORY: Goliath
could have been one.
>>HEIN: Exactly.
So it could be, George.
You're right.
It could be that
this has actually
been part of our history, our
biblical history the whole time
but we just haven't
been interpreting.
We've been anthropomorphizing
the characters in the Bible,
thinking they're
just large humans.
But these could be what we
think of now as Bigfoot,
these sort of giants.
Listening to discussions
of biblical scholars
about these different
creatures and the giants,
they usually say, well, they
were referring to wild animals
and so forth.
But how do you know?
How do you know it's not
the same thing that people
are encountering now?
>>NOORY: What do
Native Americans say
about this creature?
>>HEIN: Well, that's
a really good--
>>NOORY: What do they call it?
>>HEIN: There are
hundreds of names.
Our name, Sasquatch comes--
that's a Native American name.
There are hundreds of
different names for Sasquatch
throughout North America.
And I think it's
a very good point
because there are so many
different names for Sasquatch
going back hundreds of years.
I think that's some
of the best evidence
that this creature
really exists.
Because all the Native
Americans here encountered them,
created a name for them.
And I actually encountered
a Native American
at one of the conferences
recently in Forks, Washington,
who said his grandfather
traded with Sasquatch.
>>NOORY: Traded?
What did they trade?
>>HEIN: It's exactly
what I asked him.
He said it happened
as recently as 1913.
That's the last time
they saw the Sasquatch,
that particular group.
I went up to him.
He said his grandfather
was a salmon fisherman.
And the Sasquatch would
bring medicinal herbs,
and they would trade salmon for
medicinal herbs year after year.
And if you look at the
Northwest Coast Indians--
I just heard this again in the
Olympic Forest, just a couple
of weeks ago from
another person who
lived on the Makah Reservation.
And same story.
Salmon for medicinal herbs.
So you start hearing this.
And there's no incentive for
them just to make that up.
They were trading
with some Sasquatch.
You normally don't find apes and
animals that trade with humans.
So again, it puts them more in
the human category than the ape.
>>NOORY: I had a caller on Coast
to Coast radio a couple of years
ago who was fishing by the side
of a lake and caught two trout.
He looked up.
And peering over behind
him was a Bigfoot.
He said, it scared the living
daylights out of me, George.
I handed the Bigfoot
the two trout.
And he took them, walked away,
came back, and gave me one back.
Do you believe that story?
>>HEIN: Yeah, I do.
I do.
Because people that have done
nice things for Sasquatch
out there, perhaps--
I've read cases of veterinarians
doing some minor surgery
on an injured juvenile
or something in glacier,
places like this.
The next morning they
will find a row of fish
on the picnic table.
So--
>>NOORY: Big thank you.
>>HEIN: Big thank you.
The Sasquatch understand this
reciprocity, which we take as--
>>NOORY: It tells you there's
some intelligence there.
>>HEIN: Intelligence,
the hallmark of human--
intelligence is
this exchange we do.
>>NOORY: And emotion.
>>HEIN: Emotion,
exchange, sense of value.
Yeah, it's something
that's very uniquely human.
>>NOORY: 1926, there
were some tribes
that were meeting over some
police department situation.
What was that?
>>HEIN: That's a story that I've
heard Dave Paulides mentioned,
and it was a meeting of
three different groups
out there, Native
American groups,
because, apparently, someone
had encountered a Sasquatch.
And the sheriff wanted to
go out and hunt him down.
And these tribes,
these three tribes
in the Northwest there held
a press conference and said,
don't hurt them, don't injure
them, we trade with them,
just like this story I related
to you a few moments ago.
So even back to 1926-- we're
talking a hundred years ago
now--
tribes said that they were
trading with Sasquatch
and that they considered
them to be another tribe.
>>NOORY: They wouldn't
make that stuff up.
>>HEIN: No, they
wouldn't make it up.
>>NOORY: Who would waste their
time making that stuff up?
>>HEIN: Who would waste
their time back then,
having a press conference before
you had modern communication.
No, I totally agree.
They weren't making it up.
And that is very
important evidence
that Native Americans have been
talking about this for over 100
years now.
They had different
names for them.
Even out here, people
called them Mountain Devils.
100 years ago, people
didn't know what they were.
Sometimes they refer to
them as escaped gorillas.
>>NOORY: The Yeti
in the Himalayas.
>>HEIN: Yeti.
Yeah, there are so many
different names for them.
But the Native Americans had
their own names for them.
And I think it's very good
evidence that they existed
and they were dealing with them.
Also, their pictograms,
the pictographs--
>>NOORY: Before I even
knew about Sasquatch,
I used to read stories
about the Abominable Snowman
in the Himalayas.
Fascinated by this creature.
And I think it's one
and the same, don't you?
>>HEIN: I think so.
Yeah, the Yeti, they
were just adapted
to being in snow
conditions all the time,
which is why they'd
be white haired.
But even some of
the explorers there
talked about seeing them, so.
>>NOORY: Why isn't there more
of an investigation going on,
Simeon?
I mean, we've got people
like you, Jim Myers,
dedicated researchers.
But why isn't government
doing something about this?
>>HEIN: Well, it's very
similar to the UFO situation.
We just had these
hearings this week.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>HEIN: I think the government
knows a lot more about this
than they're saying.
There is absolutely
no way people
in the National Forest Service
and the National Park Service
and Bureau of Land Management--
>>NOORY: But why hide it?
>>HEIN: I think they want
to preserve the status quo,
the way--
I'm just speaking as
a sociologist here
is that there's a tendency for
organizations and bureaucracies
to want to keep the status quo
going because it would mean
a big change in
those organizations
to recognize another species
they would have to put signs
telling people, you're going
to be in a Sasquatch area.
There's liability and so forth.
So I think they
know a lot about it.
And they have chosen,
probably incorrectly,
not to tell us about it.
I mean, we're the ones
really paying for it.
So I think we do
know more about it.
But the other point,
George, is that Sasquatch
and some of these other
cryptids, by the way,
are very good at hiding.
They're simply very
good at avoiding people.
And even if you go on
one of these outings--
I went with Jim Myers on his
Bigfoot adventure weekend
a couple of years ago.
>>NOORY: Good guy.
>>HEIN: We didn't see anything.
But the group just about 1 mile
and 1/2 away, maybe 2 miles did.
They had it on
their flare cameras.
They had some call and response.
But it's not like you can just
go somewhere and automatically
see them.
They really do have
this ability, based
on people I've talked
to, to cloak, to morph,
to look like a tree or
like another animal.
We have these reports of them
turning into deer occasionally.
You hear it the
first time, like you
were saying before
when we were talking
at the beginning
of the interview.
And it takes a while to sink in.
But when you hear it
enough from people
and you hear it from people who
have no interest in making this
up, you get the feeling
that this is a creature that
has paranormal abilities.
At least that's the
way we would call it.
A multidimensional
aspect to them.
>>NOORY: You think it's more
physical than dimensional?
>>HEIN: They have clearly a
physical flesh and blood side.
People see them.
They look completely
physical, but that
doesn't mean that they don't
have the ability to transform.
However they're
actually doing it,
I think it has something to
do with sound and frequency
to create another phase space
as quantum mechanics tells
us exists.
Quantum mechanics tells us
everything has a frequency.
They seem to have
the ability, at least
it seems to me, to
change their frequency.
And all of a sudden, they're
just not here anymore.
They're here one
moment, and they vanish.
I've even heard this
from loggers and so forth
of them going behind trees,
thin trees, and they're gone.
>>NOORY: Poof.
>>HEIN: Yep, just like that.
>>NOORY: How has Hollywood
handled this subject?
>>HEIN: Usually, the way
this is depicted in Hollywood
is either in a humorous
Harry and the Hendersons way,
or as sort of a big sort
of hairy, benign creature
like Chewbacca in Star Wars.
And then occasionally,
you'll get a scary movie
where they're just
like completely
a monster with no humanity.
The truth is really
somewhere in between.
And I think Hollywood could
actually do a little more.
Because a lot of these stories--
and you're familiar with
these witnesses, too.
They talk about these very
human-like characteristics--
gifting, people leave
things for them.
The Sasquatch leaves
something else.
>>NOORY: What kind of things
do they leave for them?
>>HEIN: They leave crystals,
little shiny objects.
And very interestingly,
they often
leave things that have a lot
of relevance to your life
that you really wonder how
anyone would have known about,
like you would be talking about
something with a friend outside.
And the next day, you'd
find that line on the porch,
almost as if they were
eavesdropping on you
and decided, OK, we're
going to find something--
>>NOORY: Or reading
our minds or something.
>>HEIN: Yeah,
something like that.
And where do they find
all these objects?
Sometimes these are
canteens from 80 years ago
or real things
that we don't even
use anymore from another era.
Where do they keep
them in the meantime?
It's a big mystery, but they
leave very interesting--
I've had friends that
have found objects
right in their
driveways, and there
are no kids around or anything
else to leave them, so.
>>NOORY: Simeon, could Bigfoot
be an extraterrestrial?
>>HEIN: That's
always a possibility.
In my research and
from the DNA research,
it seems more like it's
something on the human family
tree, but something that's had
hundreds of thousands of years--
>>NOORY: Of an evolution.
>>HEIN: Yeah, in a
different direction,
which has led them to develop
these paranormal abilities
that those of us alive now feel
like we need to take a course in
to learn how to do, like
remote viewing or PK
or something like this.
The Sasquatch seem to know
how to do this naturally.
But the interesting
thing about your question
is they are often
seen around UFOs.
And a lot of people
in the UFO field
have wanted to keep the
Sasquatch out of their UFO.
>>NOORY: I keep thinking
of Star Wars and Chewbacca.
It was a Bigfoot.
Chewie was a Bigfoot.
>>HEIN: If you look at
the research of people
like Stan Gordon, Pennsylvania,
and so forth, a researcher
from Western Pennsylvania,
he's documented a lot of cases
where you had UFOs,
orbs, and so forth
in the same fields as Sasquatch.
And the interesting thing,
having talked to Stan
many times, is that you get
these waves of UFO sightings
at the same time you have
waves of Bigfoot sightings
in the same year or something.
>>NOORY: You find that bizarre?
>>HEIN: Yeah, I--
>>NOORY: There are
no coincidences.
>>HEIN: Yeah, it's
a clue that we're
dealing with some
family of phenomena
here that we're not
very familiar with.
It's almost like some sort
of space is opening up.
You could almost call
it like a portal.
And then there's
other things there
when those portals open up.
Or maybe we're
changing to become
more similar to these
sort of phenomena.
I'm not sure which one
it is, but they do seem
to happen at the same time.
>>NOORY: What about orbs?
Ball lightning.
>>HEIN: Orbs and ball
lightning are also
another topic that has been
studied for hundreds of years,
but mainstream science
has suppressed it.
Ball lightning is
a subject you can
find 200 years of
study of ball lightning
in Europe, especially in
Russia, in the Soviet Union.
And yet, in the West,
it's not something
that we talk about very much
outside of special access
programs.
When you look at some
of this research,
George, coming out
of the Air Force,
the Air Force did a
study of ball lightning
in '95 from J. Reece Roth.
And then Eric Davis of
the Davis-Wilson Notes
did a study for the Air Force
that came out around 2003.
They're heavily redacted.
So if ball lightning is
just a natural phenomena
with no special
significance, why
are half of the pages in
a ball lightning report
completely redacted?
Just like these UFO pages we saw
in this congressional hearing
a couple of days ago.
The original ball lightning
research from the Air Force goes
back to the '50s.
And what did they find?
Antigravity.
>>NOORY: Well, we've got
a great example of what
ball lightning looks like.
Let's take a look at that.
That's amazing stuff, isn't it?
Looks like a UFO.
>>HEIN: Yeah, it's
extremely strange.
>>NOORY: What creates that?
>>HEIN: Well, as you can
see from the video, what
ball lightning is, to
answer your question,
it's a free floating fireball,
but it's not necessarily warm.
It seems to me--
>>NOORY: I was going
to say, you don't think
it would set a forest on fire?
>>HEIN: No, no.
People who've encountered
it actually say it's cold.
It can actually
turn a room cold.
>>NOORY: It hurts
you if it hit you?
>>HEIN: It can.
It can.
One of the researchers
from Russia, Nikitin,
has found a lot
of evidence where
people were injured by those
orbs passing through them.
But what ball lightning is
part of this family of matter
we call coherent matter.
It's where all of the particles
are at the same frequency
and the temperature.
And they act like a wave,
something that was discovered
by NIST here in Boulder in '95.
Bose-Einstein condensate.
Ball lightning is like a
Bose-Einstein condensate,
but at room temperature
and not in a lab.
It's out there in the wild.
It's a kind of a mistaken
idea that it only
is found around thunderstorms.
That's true about
70% of the time.
But 30% of the time,
people just see
it like you saw it in that
video along the rail--
>>NOORY: What creates it?
>>HEIN: --moving along.
>>HEIN: It's created by charged
clusters, a charged separation.
>>NOORY: Sounds
like cold fusion.
>>HEIN: It is.
It's very similar
to cold fusion.
That's why people
like Takaaki Matsumoto
concluded that cold
fusion is actually
ball lightning in
a microscopic form.
So it's a very strange subject.
We could talk for an hour
about ball lightning.
It manifests itself in different
ways, but it moves around.
If you talk to
witnesses, George,
it almost seems
like it's conscious.
And you can't rule
out that it is.
It seems to follow you,
to walk along a trail.
But sometimes it
ends its life, which
can be a few seconds
or a few minutes,
in an explosion, which can
be very dangerous, very loud.
And sometimes it
just fades away.
But just like paranormal
phenomena, George,
it can go through walls.
It can go through solid objects.
>>NOORY: That could
go through walls?
>>HEIN: Yes, solid objects.
>>NOORY: And appear
on the other side?
Wow.
>>HEIN: It can go right
through solid objects
in a charged neutral state.
Because it doesn't
have a charge,
it can just pass through matter.
It's a highly condensed
form of matter
that creates its own rules--
>>NOORY: Are there
any sound tied to it?
>>HEIN: Yeah, sometimes
people hear whistling sounds,
hissing sounds.
There are even
cases where people
hear these screaming sounds
from the ball lightning.
It's probably just all the
energy that it's generating.
But ball lightning, a
grapefruit sized-ball lightning
apparently has the energy of
at least 10 hand grenades.
It's--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>HEIN: --extremely powerful.
If we could tap that, it could
actually be a source of energy.
The thing about ball
lightning, George,
is it doesn't last very long.
>>NOORY: It disappears.
>>HEIN: It disappears.
And cold fusion, LENR research
is an attempt to sustain it,
if you could sustain that
ball lightning and control it.
But generally, what
these ball lightnings
do is they actually destroy any
containment vessel they're in.
They transform matter.
It's almost like
alchemy, nuclear alchemy.
And they turn elements
into other elements.
It's just a whole
fascinating aspect of it.
And the fact that it's
seen around Bigfoot,
other cryptids is a
clue to us that there's
some sort of
electromagnetic aspect
to Bigfoot and cryptids that
we really haven't considered,
that they're not just an
ordinary animal or creature.
They have some other
abilities that you and I
don't know we have and we
haven't tapped into yet.
>>NOORY: How do people
track Simeon Hein's work?
>>HEIN: Oh, well,
you're welcome to go
to my blog, newcrystalmind.com.
And you can see what I'm up to.
You can follow my Twitter
and YouTube accounts
and look at my latest
books and so forth.
>>NOORY: All right.
Thanks for being on
Beyond Belief, my friend.
>>HEIN: Thanks a lot, George.
>>NOORY: I've never
seen a Bigfoot.
I would love to.
I don't know what I would
react if I did see one,
limbering across the street.
But one day, maybe I'll find it.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]